Removed

## Lit Review


The origins of this area of research have been critiqued on the basis that the early work implicitly tended to validate preconceptualized beliefs on the superiority of certain groups of peoples and used methodlogies that today would be considered risible.
For example, as noted by Steven Jay Gould, researchers such as Paul Broca engaged dubious research practice in some of the original work attempting to measure intelligence by measuring skulls sizes.
Similairly antiquted under today's standards would be FIRST Spitzka's research that used post-hoc measures of emanice to similarly be predicted by brain size. P127.
Appraising results like this with present knowledge seems absurd and ill-guided if we were to assume sinister intent.
Though even if the above resaercher's juddgment were not clouded by pre-concieved notions of the superiority of certain ethnic groups, since the progress of science is by no means directional or, perhaps more importantly teleological, assesing past standards in scientific knowledge with present knowledge is misguided KUHN.
Likewise, a similar critique of the work of Gould on having his ability to objectively apprase the results of his resarch has also been documented [PAPER HERE].

While not immediatly relevant to current thinking in cognitive psychology, work from both Broca and XXX continued by the American herediterian school of IQ (page 187 in Gould) and the early research done by Alfred Binet on IQ took inspiration from Broca.
This lineage of ideas has often been used to tarnish systematic investigations into differences in cognitive ability, which from their outset were to initially funded by the French governement to identify children struggling in the classroom so that they could be given special attention.

Bient was the initial developer of the idea of an intelligence quotient or IQ^[divide mental age by chronological age then multiply by 100] and provided one of the first ways to attempt to quantify a theoretical concept that was not capable of being manifested in the physical world.
It was also around the same time that researchers like Cyril Burt and Charles Spearmean began developing their new theories of intelligence founded on the reification of factor analysis.


Though seemingly unrelated to the current state of thinking about cognitive abilities, Binet's and Spearman's ideologies about what intelligence is and how to measure it still represent two of the larger schools on cognitive ability.
On one hand their idea that cognitive abilities are based upon a steady growth of incoming information that someone is able to manipulate once they retrieve from long term memor; on the other hand there is a school of thought that there is some sort of measureable construct, _g_ that aids in the process of solving problems that do not depend on any sort of contextuxal information.
Conceptualizing cognitive ability as these two different constructs inevitably leads to different types of measurements and subsequently what these constructs are then able to predict in terms of human behavior.



add to 330

(Harrison, 1987, 1990, 1991; Ottman, 1956; Rodeheaver, 1972; Schleuter, 1983), academic ability (Chadwick, 1933; Harrison, 1990, 1991; Harrison, Asmus, & Serpe, 1994; Rodeheaver,1972), and musical experience (Brown, 2001; Dean, 1937; Furby, 2008; Harrison, 1990, 1991; Harrison et al., 1994; Thostenson, 1967).


